Standardise error messages for distributor instance limits (#1984)
grafana/mimir: docs/sources/operators-guide/mimir-runbooks/_index.md

> **Note**: Invalid metrics metadata are skipped during the ingestion, and valid metadata within the same request are ingested.

### err-mimir-distributor-max-ingestion-rate

> This critical error occurs when the rate of received samples per second is exceeded in a distributor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This critical error occurs when the rate of received samples, exemplars and metadata per second is exceeded in a distributor.
```

> This critical error occurs when the rate of received samples, exemplars and metadata per second is exceeded in a distributor.

Reviewer 2: Where is _critical_ defined? What other qualifiers need a definition? What does it mean if I have a _critical_ error? How do I when I have converted it from a _critical_ error to a _non-critical_ error?

Reviewer 2: (I am happy to resolve this question in a common Grafana Labs glossary entry if a common definition is feasible. We can handle this question in general via a subsequent issue elsewhere.)

Reviewer: This is good feedback. I'm the culprit, cause I've introduced it without clarifying it. Let's open an issue and address it in a dedicate PR because it affects all runbooks.

Reviewer: Opened an issue: https://github.com/grafana/mimir/issues/2005

The distributor implements a rate limit on the samples per second that can be ingested, and it's used to protect a distributor from overloading in case of high traffic.

> The limit is a per-instance limit and it's applied on all samples received, across all tenants, in each distributor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The limit is a per-instance limit and it's applied on all samples, exemplars and metadata received, across all tenants, in each distributor.
```

> The limit is a per-instance limit and it's applied on all samples, exemplars and metadata received, across all tenants, in each distributor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This per-instance limit is applied to all samples, exemplars, and all of the metadata that it receives.
Also, the limit spans all of the tenants within each distributor.
```

Reviewer 2: Please double check this.

Reviewer: Technically correct.

How to **fix** it:

> - Scale up distributors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Scale up the distributors.
```

> - Increase the limit by using the `-distributor.instance-limits.max-ingestion-rate` option (or `max_ingestion_rate` in the runtime config).

Reviewer: Contrary to ingester instance limits, distributor instance limits are not configurable in the runtime config. It means that to change these limits, you need to restart the distributor process. It's typically not a big deal for distributors because they're stateless and quick to restart (when deployed in microservices mode).

```suggestion
- Increase the limit by using the `-distributor.instance-limits.max-ingestion-rate` option.
```

### err-mimir-distributor-max-inflight-push-requests

> This error occurs when a distributor rejects a write request because the max inflight requests limit has been reached.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This error occurs when a distributor rejects a write request because the maximum in-flight requests limit has been reached.
```

How it **works**:

- The distributor has per-instance limit on the number of inflight write (push) requests.

> - The limit applies on all inflight write requests, across all tenants, and is used to protect the distributor from overloading in case of high traffic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The limit applies to all in-flight write requests, across all tenants, and it protects the distributor from becoming overloaded in case of high traffic.
```

Reviewer 2: I am a bit torn on "applies to" AKA "relates to" versus "is applied to", in which case what is doing the _applying_?

Reviewer: In this context, what we want to say is that the limit spans in-flight requests across all of the tenants within each distributor.

> - You can configure the limit by setting the `-distributor.instance-limits.max-inflight-push-requests` option.

Reviewer 2: cc @brendamuir fyi on this style note

> - You can configure the limit by setting the `-distributor.instance-limits.max-inflight-push-requests` option (or `max_inflight_push_requests` in the runtime config).

Reviewer: _Same here_
```suggestion
- You can configure the limit by setting the `-distributor.instance-limits.max-inflight-push-requests` option.
```

How to **fix** it:

> - In case of emergency, increase the limit by setting the `-distributor.instance-limits.max-inflight-push-requests` option.

Reviewer 2: What is an emergency? This is somewhat alarming language that someone getting paged in the middle of the night might or might not be soothed by ... Or at least that is what comes to mind.

Is this a workaround? A viable fix? When is it not an emergency?

Reviewer: I would keep it simple and remove the "In case of emergency" at all.

> - In case of emergency, increase the limit by setting the `-distributor.instance-limits.max-inflight-push-requests` option (or `max_inflight_push_requests` in the runtime config).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In case of emergency, increase the limit by setting the `-distributor.instance-limits.max-inflight-push-requests` option.
```

> - Check the write requests latency through the `Mimir / Writes` dashboard and eventually investigate the root cause of high latency (the higher the latency, the higher the number of inflight write requests).

Reviewer: > Why is this dashboard not simply "Mimir write requests" or "Mimir writes"? What does the ambiguous / symbol mean?

Currently, our dashboards names (across our database products, not just Mimir) have the format `<product> / <dashboard name>`. The reason is due to how Grafana organize dashboards in a filesystem-like structure, and `/` is like the path separator. If you have dashboards in a folder, Grafana itself display their name as `<folder> / <dashboard name>`.

> - Check the write requests latency through the `Mimir / Writes` dashboard and eventually investigate the root cause of high latency (the higher the latency, the higher the number of inflight write requests).

Reviewer: If you think this should be revisited, then I would consider opening an issue, but we should involve Grafana people too.
